---
layout: post
title: Netlight
categories: []
tags: []
published: False

---
After reading a number of invitations I learned to predict if I would truly enjoy the time taking an interview and finding out interesting facts about an organisation. Probably the most important factor is a mood of a letter. You feel it with your fibres when an author sincerely loves the company, is proud of it and very excited to let everyone know more. Karin works at Netlight and her letter had that all.

Netlight is an IT consultancy. *"No, not one more"*, some of you may say. I already wrote about several organisations which are either IT consultancies or IT contractors. Nevertheless I encourage to keep reading. As all organisations before Netlight is different and exciting altogether.

When a consultant joins a team on customer premises the whole Netlight joins the customer. Consultants are gateways to a great amount of expertise and knowledge hold by more than 600 people working at Netlight. To achieve this the consultants spend a lot of time building large network of connections inside the company.

After signing a contract you get a list of 10-15 colleagues you are advised to have a lunch with. Through a series of lunches you get to know more people and the people get to know you: your interests, your hobbies, your past experience. You get answers to many questions about the company and receive many advices whom you'd better to have a lunch with.

> Interactions through lunches is a core element of the Netlight's culture.

Any time you ask your colleague a question you get a reply or an advice to have a lunch with another person who may know more. Jennifer &mdash; one of several Netlighters I talked to &mdash; said that you post a question in Slack and in about 15 minutes your have several suggestions and advices. People are very open and eager to meet and help you.


There is a concept of *Perfect match* that Netlight advocates. They try to bring a customer the best consultant matching its needs AND to give a consultant the project matching best her wishes and expectations. Sales persons are responsible for bringing this idea to life.